
Loading older messages…
Go into harness hackathon project

 Context: We're a 2-person team at the MongoDB x Cerebral Valley "Harness Engineering & Model Wrangling" hackathon in NYC today, with about 10 hours of build time. Theme: agent harnesses that adapt, remember, and operate reliably over the long haul, built with MongoDB Atlas, Vector Search, and agentic memory tooling. Judges pick 3 finalists, who demo at MongoDB.local NYC. Don't assume anything about our backgrounds or favor any industry; consider every domain.

Problem statements:
1. Recursive Harnessing: "Build a self-improving agent harness that automatically evolves its own architecture: updating rules, context policies, guardrails, tool access, and more. How can agents dynamically adapt their entire environment to fit a specific user, task, or use case?"
2. Long Horizon Engineering: "The highest-value agentic work spans hours, days, or weeks. Build a harness that sustains coherent memory across billions of tokens in one session, relentlessly optimizes toward long-term goals, and learns from hard metric signals to complete traditionally difficult tasks."

Research rules: Search the web extensively before answering. Prefer primary sources from 2025-2026 (official docs, papers, engineering blogs, GitHub, event pages). Cite a URL for every factual claim. Say plainly when you couldn't verify something. Report findings for each research step before moving on.

Past events in this series (add ".md" to read them as text):
- https://cerebralvalley.ai/e/mongoDB-hackathon/hackathon/gallery.md
- https://cerebralvalley.ai/e/agentic-orchestration-hackathon/hackathon/gallery.md
- https://cerebralvalley.ai/e/mongo-db-london-hackathon/hackathon/gallery.md
- https://cerebralvalley.ai/e/persistent-context-sprint-hackathon/hackathon/gallery.md

Step 1, landscape: What have major vendors shipped for agent memory and long-running agents (e.g., OpenAI Agents API and Agents SDK, AWS AgentCore Memory, LangGraph and Deep Agents, MongoDB's agent-memory blog posts)? What open-source projects and startups from 2025-2026 work on agent memory, self-improving agents, or long-running harnesses (GitHub, YC batches, Product Hunt, launch posts)? Table: name, what it does, link.

Step 2, look up existing ideas: List every winner and finalist from the past events above, one line each. Then list the 10 ideas other teams most likely got from an LLM for these statements. Everything in Steps 1 and 2, plus any generic "memory layer for agents," "chat with your docs," or "coding agent that learns from mistakes," is banned.

Step 3, generate: Write 50 one-line idea titles across many different domains that avoid everything banned, each with the probability you'd normally suggest it; most below 10%. Go back through the list and make each one bolder and more different from the others. Pick a top 5 plus a "sleeper": the idea I'm most likely to skim past that deserves a second look.

Step 4, validate the top 5 and the sleeper: Search again for anything close and name the nearest match; find evidence real people have this problem (forum threads, blog posts, incident reports, job postings); confirm a public dataset or API exists to demo it (link and license); judge whether 2 people can build it in 10 hours. Score each on novelty, evidence of pain, and feasibility (1 to 5), with citations, and give a verdict: build, change, or kill.
…
I’ll research the event and existing products, inventory past finalists, then generate and validate distinct ideas, reporting findings after each stage.

Interacted with Files

Refined and clarified the research project scope


Searched 21 websites

Planned vendor landscape research and synthesis

Reviewed source strategy


Searched 19 websites

Expanded vendor research


Searched 9 websites

Searching the web

Downloaded hackathon gallery pages

Step 1 shows memory, durable execution, and self-improvement are already crowded, so I’m targeting measurable domain tasks instead. Prior insurance, grid-response, game-learning, and memory-repair submissions are excluded.


Searched 1 website

Narrowed finalist research

Selected finalists and strongest project concepts after analysis

Consolidating research


Searched 25 websites


Searched 24 websites

Researched hackathon directions

Refined the search


Searched 25 websites

Mapped research stages and planned domain ideas and project research

Step 2 verifies 21 finalist entries, with January unranked. Validation is narrowing six domain candidates; existing recall, preservation, retraction, cueing, and taxonomy tools force novelty toward adaptive evidence verification.

Synthesized research findings and progress

Narrowed project choices

Narrowed the candidate shortlist

Continue but we’ll see how we can use jev

Worked for 25m 24s
Yes. I’d use TypeSafe AI’s Jev to make the harness’s frequent, bounded decisions—not as the main agent or the memory database. The strongest fit among the shortlisted concepts is Retraction Domino, with Taxon Split second.

The main trap is assuming that adding Jev makes a system self-improving or reliable. TypeSafe’s own documentation lists weaknesses in multistep reasoning, numerical precision, large irrelevant contexts, and adversarial inputs. Its structured outputs do not mean its decisions are always correct. 

1. What Jev actually contributes
Jev evaluates supplied information against questions with predefined answer formats. You give it the relevant state and the decisions you need; it returns values your program can act on. Its three primitives are documented below. 

Primitive	What it returns	Example in our project
Choice	One supplied option, probabilities across the options, and confidence	“Does this passage use the affected dataset, rely on its findings, merely mention it, or provide insufficient evidence?”
Noul	A 0–1 estimate for a yes/no question	“Does the correction notice explicitly identify the dataset used in this excerpt?”
Score	A value against a defined, ordered rubric, with probabilities and confidence	“How much relevant evidence is present: none, partial, or sufficient for review?”
Those example questions are proposed uses, not capabilities I have benchmarked.

TypeSafe recommends narrow questions composed through ordinary code, rather than asking Jev to resolve a complicated problem in one judgment. Multiple questions about the same supplied state can be evaluated together. 

The useful division of labor would be:

MongoDB: retain evidence, dependency records, decisions, workflow versions, and restart checkpoints.
Jev: classify small pieces of evidence and identify which predefined verification path is appropriate.
A reasoning model: investigate ambiguous cases, synthesize explanations, and propose changes to the workflow.
Application code: enforce permissions, traverse dependencies, calculate metrics, and decide whether a proposed workflow change passes evaluation.
That is my proposed architecture—not a claim that these components automatically produce reliable results.

2. Best application: Retraction Domino
The concept is an agent that maintains a research project’s evidence dependencies over time. When a source is corrected or retracted, it investigates which downstream conclusions need review, rather than simply sending an alert or marking every citation as invalid.

Where Jev enters the workflow
Consider this illustrative demo scenario:

A project has accumulated research notes over several sessions. A correction arrives concerning one source’s dataset. Some notes depend on that dataset; other notes cite the same paper only for background.

I would implement the following:

Stage	Proposed Jev decision	What the harness does
Screen the update	Does this notice concern a tracked source or dataset?	Discard irrelevant candidates or open an investigation.
Classify a dependency	Does the supplied citing passage use the affected result, reuse its data, or merely mention it?	Record a proposed dependency type, retaining the supporting excerpt.
Assess missing evidence	Does the supplied material explicitly establish the relevant relationship?	Retrieve methods, a supplement, or a source manifest—or escalate for review.
Check the proposed change	Does the proposed update exceed what the supplied notice and excerpts support?	Hold unsupported changes instead of automatically rewriting conclusions.
Do not ask Jev, “Is this downstream scientific conclusion now false?” That combines dependency analysis, interpretation of the notice, and potentially substantive scientific reasoning. Instead, use Jev for the smaller judgments and retain an explicit “unresolved” state.

Also, keep candidate discovery separate from proof: retrieving a semantically similar passage should create a candidate to inspect, not establish a dependency.

What makes this harness engineering rather than a classifier
The interesting demo is not “Jev labels citations.” It is:

The agent discovers that its current verification procedure misses a class of dependencies, changes that procedure, and demonstrates better performance on unseen examples.

For example, the initial workflow inspects citation-adjacent text. It misses cases where dataset reuse is disclosed only in the methods section. After feedback, a candidate workflow adds a methods-retrieval step for that case.

A proposed configuration change could look like this:

Workflow v1
  Evidence: citation-adjacent excerpt
  Missing relationship: mark unresolved

Workflow v2
  Evidence: citation-adjacent excerpt
  Additional check: identify possible dataset reuse
  If indicated: retrieve methods or dataset statement
  Still unresolved: send to review
The crucial separation:

Jev helps choose the path. An independent evaluation determines whether the new path is better.

Do not use “Jev is more confident now” as the improvement metric.

3. How to implement genuine adaptation
For your ten-hour build, I would use bounded workflow evolution, not arbitrary self-modifying code.

Allow the harness to change a small, inspectable configuration: which evidence sections it retrieves, which checks it runs, the criteria it uses, and when it escalates. Keep authorization, deletion restrictions, and evaluation data outside that editable configuration.

The proposed loop:

Run the current workflow on a development set and record the decisions, evidence, latency, and errors.
Propose a configuration change based on the observed failures.
Replay the candidate on separate validation examples and promote it only when it improves the chosen metrics without violating constraints. Reserve a final test set that neither the proposer nor Jev sees.
For this project, I would measure missed affected dependencies, unnecessary review flags, review workload, and cost per case. A candidate that sends everything to a human may reduce automatic errors while being practically useless; report that tradeoff.

This is adaptation of your harness, not training Jev. TypeSafe explicitly says customer customization happens through supplied state, instructions, and criteria—not per-account fine-tuning or LoRA. 

4. How it fits the other shortlisted ideas
These are architectural judgments, not measured comparisons.

Concept	Appropriate Jev role	Boundary I would enforce	My assessment
Retraction Domino	Classify evidence relationships and select follow-up checks	Do not equate a citation with dependence, or a retraction with automatic falsity	Strongest fit
Taxon Split	Interpret identification notes against supplied distinguishing criteria; flag insufficient evidence	Geographic calculations and formal identifiers stay in code; uncertain records remain unresolved	Strong fit, harder validation
Recall Cascade	Match messy product descriptions to candidate records; interpret stated exclusions	Lot numbers, dates, and explicit identity checks stay in code	Useful component, not enough to rescue the data limitations
Instrument Mutiny	Classify maintenance notes and error descriptions; select a diagnostic procedure	Do not use Jev to calculate sensor drift or replace numerical fault detection	Supporting role only
Escape Clause	Classify playtester feedback and select a predefined design test	A solver—not Jev’s opinion—must establish puzzle solvability	Supporting role only
Archive Ambulance	Interpret preservation-tool output and select an allowed follow-up	Deterministic validation must establish whether a conversion preserved required properties	Does not change my earlier kill verdict
The boundaries around numerical work, generation, and multistep inference follow TypeSafe’s documented limitations. 

5. Important novelty check: two obvious versions already exist
“Jev manages agent memory” is already taken. The September 21, 2026 Jev-Mem paper describes Jev controlling memory organization, query routing, retrieval budgets, candidate scoring, and stopping, with a separate model handling reasoning and synthesis. I verified the paper exists; I have not reproduced its performance results. 

“Jev checks citations” is also already documented. TypeSafe has a citation-checking cookbook for checking whether a source’s context supports a claim. 

Therefore, neither should become your pitch.

The proposed distinction is maintaining a changing project’s evidence dependencies and improving the procedure used to investigate downstream consequences. Jev is an implementation component. Whether the complete product is sufficiently differentiated still depends on the competitor analysis—not on using a newly released model.

6. Integration and practical constraints
The simplest direct integration is documented in TypeSafe’s quickstart:

POST https://api.typesafe.ai/v1/systemone
Authorization: Bearer <TYPESAFE_API_KEY>

{
  "model": "jev-1.13.0",
  "state": {
    "notice": "...",
    "citing_excerpt": "...",
    "source_identifiers": ["..."]
  },
  "questions": {
    "relationship": {
      "type": "choice",
      "instructions": "Classify the relationship explicitly stated in the citing excerpt.",
      "criteria": {
        "uses_data": "Explicitly reuses data from the identified source",
        "uses_finding": "Explicitly uses a finding as support",
        "background": "Mentions the source only as background",
        "unresolved": "The supplied excerpt does not establish the relationship"
      }
    }
  }
}
This illustrates the documented request structure; I have not executed it against your account or tested those criteria. Pinning the model version makes your comparisons more interpretable than using a moving alias. 

The current model documentation lists $0.042 per million input tokens, with free output tokens. It is text-only, with a 64,000-token total request limit and a 32,000-token limit for the state plus the longest question. It therefore does not replace the persistent storage and selective retrieval needed for long-horizon work. 

Two additional cautions:

Confidence is not a correctness guarantee. TypeSafe’s confidence summarizes the shape of its output probability distribution. Evaluate thresholds against labeled examples rather than interpreting confidence = 0.95 as a demonstrated 95% success rate on your task. 

Do not assume Vercel access is free today. Its Jev page still displays “Free,” but also says promotional pricing ended September 25, 2026. That page is internally inconsistent for today, September 26; verify billing in the account you actually use. 

What I would build today
I would narrow the demonstration to one research project, a small manually labeled dependency set, a replay of correction events, and two workflow versions. Compare a fixed reasoning-model workflow, a fixed Jev-assisted workflow, and the adapted Jev-assisted workflow. Show actual errors, cost, and review workload—not just a more impressive-looking graph.

Include a process restart so the audience can see the investigation resume from MongoDB, and label the historical replay honestly rather than claiming you ran for weeks or processed billions of tokens.

Recommendation: use Jev in Retraction Domino for bounded evidence decisions and verification routing. Make the demonstrated improvement in the investigation procedure the centerpiece. Confidence: high on the API’s architectural suitability; moderate on this specific application until tested; unknown on your account’s access and actual end-to-end performance.

The biggest trap is mistaking a new model integration for a new product. Jev-controlled memory already has a research paper, and FreshCtx already checks whether an agent’s supporting evidence became stale before an action. Neither “memory powered by Jev” nor “an agent that notices outdated facts” is sufficiently differentiated by itself. 

My recommendation for today: Recall Firebreak, narrowly scoped to an agent that handles an evolving recall and learns what evidence it must obtain before proposing that a location is clear. Citation Fallout is the alternative, but it must repair downstream research work—not merely flag retracted citations.

Confidence: moderate. Both have usable public data and a bounded demonstration path. Neither is an untouched market. The distinction has to be demonstrated through the workflow and evaluation, not asserted in the pitch.

The event page confirms the September 26 build event and the September 30 MongoDB.local NYC final; finalists must attend the latter to win. 

Step 1 — Landscape: what already exists
“Excluded” below means do not repackage the existing product concept as your idea. It does not prohibit using its infrastructure; otherwise MongoDB itself would be excluded.

These are documented capabilities, not independently verified performance claims. Some projects predate 2025 but have relevant 2025–2026 development.

Major vendors and frameworks
Name	What it already does	Primary source
OpenAI Agents API	Managed agent harness with durable tasks, saved state, context management, and tool execution.	Agents documentation
OpenAI Agents SDK	Custom agent orchestration, sessions, handoffs, guardrails, tracing, and human intervention.	Official SDK
AWS AgentCore Memory	Stores interaction events and extracts longer-term information for subsequent agent interactions.	AWS documentation
Google Memory Bank	Extracts and maintains reusable memories across agent sessions.	Google documentation
Anthropic Managed Agents memory	Persistent cross-session memory; documented as a beta capability.	Anthropic documentation
LangGraph and Deep Agents	Durable execution and checkpoints; higher-level planning, subagents, filesystem context, and context compression.	Framework comparison, Deep Agents
MongoDB Atlas and Memori integration	Document/vector infrastructure for agent memory; Memori adds memory capture and recall using customer Atlas infrastructure.	MongoDB memory overview, integration announcement
Cloudflare Agents and Agent Memory	Durable agent state and execution, plus a managed memory service introduced initially in private beta.	Agents documentation, memory announcement
Finding: persistence, compaction, resumption, and basic memory extraction are already supplied by the stack. They are implementation choices, not a compelling standalone hackathon product. 

Open-source projects, startups, and research
Name	What it does	Primary source
Mem0	Extracts and retrieves user/agent memories for personalization and continuity.	Repository
Letta / MemFS	Stateful agents with persistent, filesystem-oriented memory.	MemFS documentation
Zep / Graphiti	Temporal knowledge graphs with changing facts and graph-based retrieval.	Repository
Supermemory	Context and memory infrastructure for applications and agents.	Repository
Honcho	Builds representations of users and interactions for agents.	Repository
Cognee	Combines graph and vector representations for agent knowledge and memory.	Repository
Hindsight	Retains experiences, recalls relevant information, and reflects over accumulated knowledge.	Repository
LangMem	Long-term memory management and learning from interactions, including prompt optimization.	Repository
Mastra Observational Memory	Compresses interaction history into observations and reflections.	Documentation
ReMe	Agent memory management covering reusable experience and working context.	Repository
ByteRover	Persistent, reusable context for coding agents.	Repository, Product Hunt
Hermes Agent	Long-lived agent with reusable skills and learning across interactions.	Repository
Darwin Gödel Machine	Agents modify their own implementation and retain improvements based on evaluation.	Sakana research announcement
ACE: Agentic Context Engineering	Evolves contextual playbooks through generation, reflection, and curation.	Paper
EvoAgentX	Optimizes agent workflows, prompts, and execution structures.	Repository
Microsoft Agent Lightning	Applies reinforcement-learning training to agents while separating training from execution frameworks.	Repository
FreshCtx	Revalidates declared evidence dependencies immediately before consequential actions.	Repository
Inspeximus	Long-term agent memory emphasizing retraction of outdated information.	Maintainer’s package publication
Jev-Mem	Uses Jev as a controller for memory operations and retrieval decisions.	September 2026 paper
For startup-discovery verification: Mastra’s YC page identifies it as Winter 2025, and ByteRover has a directly accessible Product Hunt listing. I am not assigning unverified YC batches or repeating launch-page accuracy claims. 

Where Jev actually fits
TypeSafe’s documentation describes Jev as a structured decision model: supply state and typed questions, receive machine-consumable answers. Its primitives include Choice, Score, and Noul, rather than unrestricted prose generation. 

My proposed role for it is bounded decision-making inside an application, not “the entire autonomous agent.” A valid output type is not proof that the selected action is correct.

Step 1 conclusion: exclude generic memory storage, temporal-memory graphs, context compression, learned playbooks, self-modifying coding agents, and generic stale-evidence guards as standalone pitches.

Step 2 — Previous winners and finalists
I verified 21 finalist entries across the four galleries. The descriptions below summarize what the teams presented, not independently proven product performance.

Agentic Memory & Context Engineering — first MongoDB gallery
Finish	Project	One-line concept
1st	ForgetMeNot	Context and person-recognition assistance for people with dementia.
2nd	contextScope	Evaluates context fidelity and drift between agents.
3rd	WebBrain	Conversational retrieval over browsing history.
Finalist	Travel assistant — Airbnb	Memory-based personalized accommodation recommendations.
Finalist	KitchenPal	Recipe assistance using ingredients, preferences, and retrieval.
Finalist	MonGOD	On-call incident assistance using relevant stored context.
The first three project pages explicitly show their placements. 

Agentic Orchestration & Collaboration
Verified status	Project	One-line concept
Winner; exact placing not verified	JustPrice	Healthcare price-transparency and patient-advocacy workflow.
Finalist	Watch and Learn	Learns browser workflows from demonstrations.
Finalist	Moongrate	Multi-agent PostgreSQL-to-MongoDB application migration.
Finalist	Polaris	Multimodal threat intelligence and agent-security testing.
Finalist	SOGA	Voice/glasses interface for orchestrating agents.
Finalist	EvacuTrace	Video-derived spatial models and emergency-path simulation.
Verification limit: these six pages label their projects as finalists. MongoDB’s own announcement says JustPrice won, but I could not verify the complete first/second/third ordering. I will not infer it from gallery order. 

London — Agentic Evolution
Finish	Project	One-line concept
1st	PlanPass AI	Home-planning design and compliance assistance.
2nd	RunwayOps	Handles cash-timing and payroll-related operational cases.
3rd	Volt Control	Grid demand-response and load-control coordination.
Finalist	Substrate	Shared persistent memory for engineering work.
Finalist	Cooks / LiveRecall	Visual retrieval of medical-device instructions at the point of use.
Finalist	Glass Houses	Conversational access to housing, planning, and complaint information.
The placement badges identify PlanPass AI, RunwayOps, and Volt Control as the top three. 

Persistent Context Sprint
Finish	Project	One-line concept
1st	Amelia for the Deaf	Persistent context for following group conversations beyond captions alone.
2nd	TraceCase	Recreates customer bugs, tests fixes, and prepares pull requests.
3rd	Perpetual	Turns repeated interaction patterns into reusable skills.
These placements are explicit on the project pages. 

Ten ideas I expect an unconstrained LLM to suggest
These are my predictions, not observed submissions from today’s teams.

#	Likely default suggestion
1	Personal assistant that remembers preferences across every application.
2	Coding agent that records failures and improves its future fixes.
3	Research agent that spends days producing a comprehensive report.
4	Customer-support agent that learns from resolved tickets.
5	Sales agent that remembers prospects and follows up indefinitely.
6	Travel planner that adapts to changing preferences and itineraries.
7	Meta-agent that optimizes prompts, chooses models, and rewrites its own workflow.
8	Multi-agent team with a shared memory or “collective brain.”
9	Universal memory-compression, knowledge-graph, or retrieval layer.
10	Self-healing operations agent that remembers incidents and adjusts runbooks.
Step 2 conclusion: all these concepts, the finalist concepts, and the Step 1 infrastructure-as-product concepts are excluded.

Step 3 — Fifty revised ideas
I do not have calibrated probabilities for what I would “normally suggest.” P* below is a rough, subjective estimate of how readily the concept would surface in a default brainstorm—not a measured model probability, novelty score, or chance of winning.

These are the revised concepts. Only the six selected afterward receive external validation.

#	Revised one-line idea	P*
1	Recall Firebreak: a recall agent that changes its verification protocol when supplier assurances conflict with lot-level evidence.	7%
2	Citation Fallout: retract one research finding and watch the agent repair only the conclusions, calculations, and artifacts that depended on it.	6%
3	Bit-Rot ER: an archive-rescue agent that tests reversible repairs and refuses to declare victory merely because a damaged file opens.	2%
4	Valve Detective: a simulated water-network agent that learns which observation to request when sensors and valve records disagree.	3%
5	Taxon Undo: an expert-approved species correction becomes a tracked repair campaign across specimen records, loans, and exhibit labels.	1%
6	Still Broken: a service-resolution agent that treats “ticket closed” as a claim requiring evidence, not as its success metric.	5%
7	Your Wrench Lied for Six Months: a failed calibration triggers targeted reinspection of affected assemblies without stopping unrelated production.	2%
8	Freezer Black Box: after an outage, reconstruct uncertain sample exposure and choose the next inspection rather than inventing a clean temperature history.	3%
9	Strata Undo: a revised excavation-layer assignment propagates through artifact interpretations while preserving the original reasoning.	1%
10	Night Shift Telescope: an observing agent survives clouds, missed windows, and instrument failures while preserving a multi-night scientific objective.	3%
11	Consent Afterlife: withdrawn interview consent launches a bounded cleanup of derived clips, transcripts, previews, and scheduled releases.	4%
12	Braille Patchwork: a source revision triggers selective repair of accessible editions, preserving tactile references and pagination dependencies.	2%
13	Understudy Switch: an absent performer causes a new rehearsal and cue plan, with physical and staffing constraints checked before adoption.	3%
14	The Orchestra Has Two Bar 47s: reconcile incompatible score editions and repair affected parts without erasing intentional musical differences.	1%
15	Seed Bank Watch: failed germination tests change regeneration and reservation plans without consuming the last viable stock in repeated experiments.	2%
16	Reef Nursery Custodian: an agent adjusts inspection plans over successive observations while separating uncertain diagnoses from authorized interventions.	1%
17	Irrigation Amnesia: determine what was actually watered after telemetry gaps, then revise inspection frequency instead of trusting scheduled commands.	3%
18	Wardrobe Passport: a physical fashion sample misses a handoff, forcing evidence-based rerouting across competing shoots and deadlines.	2%
19	The Subtitler’s Retcon: a late story revelation selectively changes earlier translation choices across episodes and languages.	2%
20	Kiln Negotiator: use failed test tiles to revise compatible batch groupings and inspection requirements for the next firing.	1%
21	Logbook Limbo: conflicting maintenance records create a persistent evidence-resolution case, never an automatically invented clearance.	3%
22	Tender Change Sentry: a procurement amendment reopens only affected cost assumptions, supplier requests, and bid obligations.	11%
23	Lost Bag Proofchain: recover a bag across changing itineraries while distinguishing a scan, a custody claim, and confirmed possession.	6%
24	The Empty-Shelf Librarian: a catalog says “available”; the agent chooses and learns a bounded physical-search strategy before rerouting a hold.	3%
25	Donation Deadline Keeper: salvage a food-bank allocation when pickups fail, while preserving expiry, capacity, and acceptance constraints.	7%
26	Return Crate Court: reconcile reusable-container custody disputes using conflicting scans and receipts rather than endlessly sending reminders.	2%
27	Mushroom Flush Notebook: change the next measurement and sampling schedule when cultivation outcomes contradict the remembered conditions.	1%
28	Boatyard Launch Gate: missing evidence about completed work changes the inspection plan before a vessel can be proposed for release.	2%
29	Warranty Moving Goalposts: maintain a claim across changing proof requirements, preserving exactly what was submitted and what remains unresolved.	12%
30	Satellite Downlink Triage: recover from lost communication passes by revising transmission priorities under a fixed scientific objective and bandwidth budget.	3%
31	Machine-Shop Tool Life: adapt inspection intervals after premature wear while protecting the distinction between measured condition and predicted remaining life.	4%
32	Wheelchair Route Proof: an access outage causes a route-verification workflow that distinguishes a listed accessible entrance from a recently confirmed usable one.	7%
33	Brew Batch Historian: conflicting fermentation observations change which test to request next rather than triggering an unsupported recipe adjustment.	2%
34	Do Not Bury It Yet: a trench cannot be marked ready for backfill until the specific missing evidence has been obtained and reviewed.	2%
35	Tournament Bracket Repair: an approved eligibility change repairs dependent standings, fixtures, and notifications without rewriting unaffected results.	4%
36	Auction Lot Assembler: pursue a collection-completion objective across successive auctions while preserving budget, identity, and substitution constraints.	4%
37	The Lost Meter Month: reconcile a meter replacement, estimated readings, and actual observations without silently converting uncertainty into a billable fact.	3%
38	Museum Loan Weather: a transit-condition excursion changes inspection and evidence requirements across a multi-institution loan journey.	1%
39	Aquarium Sensor Disagreement: choose independent verification tests when probes disagree, with no autonomous chemical dosing.	2%
40	Survey Instrument Epoch: a mid-study questionnaire change triggers explicit compatibility checks before old and new responses are combined.	3%
41	Radiocarbon Rebaseline: a revised calibration basis identifies which derived date claims need recomputation and which remain valid.	1%
42	Street-Tree Aftercare: adjust inspection and follow-up plans using observed establishment outcomes rather than counting scheduled maintenance visits.	4%
43	Harbor Berth Dominoes: recover from a vessel delay by revising berth, equipment, and handoff commitments without pretending every constraint is negotiable.	5%
44	Field Camp Courier: preserve a scientific expedition’s unfinished obligations across intermittent connectivity and ambiguous delivery acknowledgments.	2%
45	Vintage Part Fit Test: resolve obsolete-part compatibility through bounded measurement requests rather than a confident match based on similar names.	3%
46	Grave Record Reconciler: conflicting burial identifiers become a provenance-preserving correction workflow rather than an irreversible database merge.	1%
47	Clock Drift Witness: a discovered timestamp error reopens affected incident sequences and requests the cheapest evidence that can resolve ordering.	3%
48	Restoration Sample Planner: choose the next small conservation test from prior results while preserving untreated controls and reversibility constraints.	1%
49	Volunteer Qualification Dispatcher: recover from cancellations and expired qualifications without assigning a task merely because someone is available.	6%
50	Borrowed Prototype Custodian: reconcile component swaps, damage reports, and custody across laboratories before accepting a prototype as returned intact.	2%
Pre-validation top five: Recall Firebreak, Citation Fallout, Bit-Rot ER, Valve Detective, and Taxon Undo.

Sleeper: Still Broken. Its distinguishing question is not “can an agent manage tickets?” It is “what evidence should count as completion?” That creates a concrete test of whether an agent optimizes the real objective or an administrative proxy.

Step 4 — Validation of the six
Scores are judgments, not measurements. Novelty is relative to the closest work found, not a claim that no competitor exists. Feasibility means a scoped demonstration in ten hours—not production readiness.

Idea	Novelty /5	Pain evidence /5	Feasibility /5	Verdict
Recall Firebreak	3	5	4	BUILD, using historical data and explicitly synthetic operations
Citation Fallout	3	4	4	BUILD, only as downstream remediation
Bit-Rot ER	2	4	4	KILL the generic version
Valve Detective	3	3	2	KILL for today
Taxon Undo	3	4	3	CHANGE to cross-system repair
Still Broken	3	3	4	CHANGE to evidence-backed completion verification
1. Recall Firebreak — BUILD
Strongest counterargument: recall-management software already exists. Trustwell FoodLogiQ Recall covers recall execution, communications, and tracking; Trustwell also markets AI capabilities. “AI recall dashboard” is not differentiated. 

Evidence of pain: the FDA’s 2025 Bedner cucumber recall record documents downstream recalls involving repackaged cucumbers and products made with them. The FDA also explicitly describes cases where recall information must be corrected or expanded to additional lots. This supports a genuinely evolving scope problem. 

Public data and license: openFDA Food Enforcement provides public recall records. Its terms apply CC0/public-domain treatment unless otherwise marked, with exceptions for certain third-party material. 

Critical limitation: the API is updated weekly, and FDA explicitly warns against using it for public alerts or tracking a recall’s lifecycle. Therefore, use it for historical scenario material, not a purported live safety system. 

Ten-hour scope: one recall, a synthetic distributor inventory, a handful of stores, and a replay of contradictory supplier/store messages. The agent can request a manifest, inspect a lot record, ask for missing evidence, escalate, or propose a disposition.

Actual differentiation: after a failed verification, the harness changes the evidence and tools required for that class of case. It then performs better on unseen variations, rather than simply remembering the answer to the original incident.

Metrics: false-clearance proposals, unnecessary quarantine, unresolved cases, and evidence requests. Prioritize safety errors before optimizing effort.

Jev role: classify the evidence conflict and select the next bounded verification action. Exact lot matching and inventory arithmetic stay deterministic.

2. Citation Fallout — BUILD, but not as a citation checker
Strongest counterargument: both halves of the obvious idea already exist. Zotero provides retraction notifications; FreshCtx checks evidence dependencies before actions. A red warning beside a citation is not enough. 

Evidence of pain: a 2025 study of English Wikipedia examined 1,181 citations to retracted papers and documented persistent gaps in citation repair. This is evidence of a maintenance problem, not proof of demand for your particular product. 

Public data and license: Crossref’s Retraction Watch data is available through its metadata infrastructure and downloadable data. The Retraction Watch database is CC0; bibliographic references are reusable factual metadata. Abstracts are not blanket CC0, and full-text rights must be checked separately. 

Ten-hour scope: a small research workspace containing several claims, a comparison table, a calculation, and a draft. A real retraction event is replayed against explicitly authored dependency fixtures.

The agent should determine what needs review, obtain replacement evidence where available, rerun an affected calculation, and prepare a tracked revision. Unaffected work remains intact.

Important distinction: a citation is not automatically a logical dependency, and retracting a source does not automatically falsify every paper that cites it. Do not infer scientific guilt or invalidate whole documents from graph proximity.

Metrics: correct affected-artifact identification, unnecessary invalidations, unsupported replacement claims, and completed remediation tasks.

Jev role: choose between review_support, recompute, seek_replacement, leave_unaffected, and escalate. A generative model can draft revisions; deterministic checks and human review govern acceptance.

3. Bit-Rot ER — KILL the generic version
Nearest match: Archivematica’s fixity tooling already checks archival integrity and identifies changed, missing, or unexpected content. This is a substantial existing baseline, not just an adjacent chatbot. 

Evidence of pain: the Digital Preservation Coalition’s fixity guidance and the University of Melbourne’s preservation guidance treat integrity checking as an operational preservation requirement.

Public data and license: the Open Preservation Foundation format corpus states CC0 unless otherwise specified. The veraPDF corpus is CC BY 4.0. Preserve attribution and inspect exceptions. 

Ten-hour scope: corrupt copies of known files, attempt reversible repair or restoration, and verify checksums and format validity.

Why kill it: the cleanest demonstration—detect corruption and restore a known-good copy—is better handled by deterministic software. A model choosing among three repair commands does not establish a meaningful need for an adaptive agent.

Potential revision: multi-party recovery when provenance, rights, missing dependencies, and preservation policy conflict. That is a different, much harder product to validate today.

Jev role: weak for the straightforward version. Do not force one.

4. Valve Detective — KILL for today
Nearest match: TaKaDu already detects and manages water-network events, including leaks and pressure-reducing-valve failures, with historical information and repair status. 

Evidence of pain: TaKaDu’s customer cases cover water loss and fragmented network visibility; its November 2025 KUB case concerns combining network and consumption data. These are vendor-published customer cases, not independent validation of the specific conflicting-sensor scenario. 

Public simulator and license: EPA/Sandia’s WNTR supplies a Python API, example networks, leak/disruption simulation, response strategies, and hydraulic evaluation. The project is under the Revised BSD license; preserve bundled notices. 

Ten-hour scope: one small simulated network, one hidden fault, limited observations, and a choice of inspection actions. No real infrastructure control.

Metrics: fault localization, observation cost, and simulated pressure/service violations.

Why kill it today: meaningful evaluation requires a trustworthy simulator setup, a credible baseline, and enough hydraulic understanding to avoid a misleading demonstration. That integration risk is too high under the stated constraints.

Jev role: choose the next observation—not perform hydraulic calculations or independently authorize valve operation.

5. Taxon Undo — CHANGE
Nearest match: iNaturalist’s taxon-change system already supports swaps, merges, splits, notifications, and associated-record updates. Its guide explicitly discusses preserving history and the limits of undoing changes. Simple “AI taxonomic renaming” would reproduce existing functionality. 

Evidence of pain: a June–August 2026 curator thread documents broken links and manual workarounds following GBIF identifier changes. That supports cross-system migration pain, not autonomous species identification. 

Public data and license: the GBIF API exposes species and occurrence information. GBIF licensing is dataset-specific: CC0, CC BY, or CC BY-NC. For the demonstration, select CC0/CC BY records, retain provider identifiers, and follow attribution requirements. 

Change the idea to: an expert-approved correction coordinator across systems. A correction generates a repair plan for external references, collection records, and synthetic loan/exhibit records; ambiguous mappings stop for review.

Ten-hour scope: one mapping change, a small collection, and two mock downstream systems.

Metrics: correctly repaired references, false merges, lost provenance, and unresolved ambiguous mappings.

Jev role: classify mapping ambiguity and choose the required review path. It must not decide that two biological entities are identical.

6. Still Broken — CHANGE; retain as the sleeper
Nearest match: CivicPlus SeeClickFix 311 CRM already manages service requests and communication. A complaint tracker is not new. 

Evidence of pain: a first-person NYC report describes a no-action disposition while the reported condition allegedly persisted. This is an older anecdote, not an incidence estimate. My verification of broad, current pain is weaker here than for recalls or taxonomy migration. 

Public data and terms: NYC’s 311 Service Requests from 2020 to Present is publicly available. The city’s Open Data FAQ states that there are no restrictions on use; this is an unrestricted-use policy, not a named CC0 license. 

Ground-truth problem: I did not verify a reliable field proving that the physical problem was resolved. Repeated complaints do not establish that either.

Change the idea to: a completion-verification workflow using human-supplied follow-up evidence. It requests a missing observation, distinguishes recurrence from nonresolution, and prepares a bounded escalation for approval.

Ten-hour scope: one complaint category, public records for realistic structure, and explicitly synthetic before/after evidence.

Metrics: false completion, unnecessary escalation, duplicate requests, and evidence burden.

Jev role: assess whether the evidence addresses the original completion criterion. Do not automate repeated complaint submissions.

How I would use Jev in the project
Keep Jev replaceable. You should be able to run the same application with a rules-only controller and an ordinary structured-output model. Otherwise, you cannot tell whether Jev—or the adaptive harness—actually improves anything.

The official quickstart provides Python and JavaScript integration paths. I verified the documentation, not a working call with your credentials, latency, or task-specific accuracy. 

For Recall Firebreak, use this separation:

Component	Responsibility
Deterministic code	Exact identifiers, inventory joins, counts, version checks, permissions, and immutable safety constraints.
Jev	Select the next bounded evidence action; classify conflicting or insufficient evidence.
Generative model	Draft a narrowly constrained policy revision or an explanation for review.
MongoDB Atlas	Persist events, cases, evidence, checkpoints, policy versions, and evaluation results.
Vector Search	Retrieve analogous prior failures—not decide whether two lot identifiers are identical.
Independent evaluator	Score actions against fixture ground truth and reject policy regressions.
A useful decision interface would be:

next_action ∈ {inspect_lot_record, request_manifest, request_missing_evidence, escalate, wait, propose_disposition}

That is a proposed application interface, not a claim about a specific Jev SDK function.

What actually makes this recursive harnessing?
The agent must change an execution policy, not merely append a lesson to a text file.

For example, after a failure it proposes:

“For repackaged products with conflicting supplier and store records, require the distributor transformation record before accepting the store’s clearance evidence.”

That proposal changes which tool becomes available next, which evidence is included in context, and which gate must be satisfied. The application validates the change against held-out cases before activating it.

Keep permanent invariants outside that optimization. The agent must not learn that removing approval requirements is an easy way to improve completion rate.

What makes it long-horizon?
Show interrupted work, delayed evidence, superseded assumptions, and resumed obligations. A case should remain coherent after a process restart and after a later event changes its scope.

A time-compressed replay is not proof of weeks of production operation or billions of tokens. Present it as a controlled demonstration of those failure modes.

The ten-hour build I would commit to
Build window	Person A	Person B
0–1 hour	Define the event schema and rules-only baseline.	Prepare historical source material and clearly labeled synthetic scenarios.
1–3 hours	Implement Atlas case state, event ingestion, and checkpoints.	Build the case timeline and evidence-review UI.
3–5 hours	Implement bounded evidence tools and the controller interface.	Build the deterministic evaluator and outcome display.
5–7 hours	Add Jev and a constrained policy-revision loop.	Add contradictory evidence, delayed updates, and restart tests.
7–9 hours	Run fixed-controller versus adaptive-controller comparisons.	Freeze held-out cases and inspect every claimed improvement.
9–10 hours	Stabilize the demonstration and record a fallback.	Prepare the explanation of the failure, policy change, and measured result.
The demonstration
A synthetic store is about to be treated as clear. New evidence contradicts its earlier confirmation. The agent preserves the unresolved obligation, obtains the missing record, and corrects the proposed disposition.

Then show the important part: a different case with the same failure mechanism. The revised harness requests the right evidence earlier, without broadly quarantining unrelated products. Restart the process midway and show that it resumes correctly.

Display the fixed baseline, the adaptive run, the exact policy difference, and the outcome counts. Do not show only the successful anecdote.

Final choice
Build Recall Firebreak because it gives you the clearest combination of evolving external evidence, consequential but simulatable actions, objective fixture outcomes, and a visible harness-policy change.

Choose Citation Fallout instead only when its downstream repair workflow is more compelling to you than the recall workflow—not because citation alerts or dependency invalidation are novel.

For either: start with the event replay and the rules-only baseline. Add Jev after you have a failure case that its decisions can measurably improve.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/13c8je_4unbaLLMGYhCO58zMKx4eZZ_GcuYhrUSONld8/edit?usp=drivesdk

Worked for 3m 25s
The critical requirement is the Atlas Hackathon Sandbox: using an ordinary Atlas cluster is not enough to qualify as a finalist. You must create the project and cluster through the invitation emailed by the organizers. Also, my earlier “three finalists” framing was incomplete: six teams advance, with three ultimately presenting onstage. 

This guide changes the build and submission priorities more than it changes which domain we should choose.

1. The actual requirements
Item	What the guide specifies
Technical requirement	MongoDB is the data and memory layer, using the designated Atlas Hackathon Sandbox.
Problem statement	Build against one of the two statements. We do not need to solve both.
Originality	No prior projects; all work must be original.
Submission	Public GitHub repository, one-minute demo video showing the code and functionality built today, and a concise project description, submitted through Cerebral Valley. The demo link must be accessible.
September 26	First-round judging, followed by announcement and demos from the top six teams.
September 30	Six teams exhibit at MongoDB.local NYC and participate in a community vote; three teams demo onstage.
Attendance	At least one member of a finalist team must attend September 30 between 10 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to be eligible to win.
Team size	Up to four people, so your two-person team fits.
All of these are stated in the organizer’s guide. It does not specify the exact submission cutoff, a weighted judging rubric, or precisely how the community vote determines the onstage selection. Those details remain unknown from this document. 

Important distinction: the long list of excluded ideas in our brainstorm came from your research instructions—not the event’s eligibility rules. We should pursue differentiation, but not mistake our brainstorming filter for an official judging criterion.

2. Confirmed prizes
Place	MongoDB cash	LangSmith credits	Vercel v0 credits	ElevenLabs
First	$7,000	$3,000	$1,800	Three months, Scale tier
Second	$5,000	$2,000	$1,200	Three months, Pro tier
Third	$3,000	$1,000	$600	Three months, Pro tier
That is $15,000 in cash, plus $9,600 in stated software credits, plus the ElevenLabs subscriptions. Software credits should not be represented as cash. These totals are calculated from the guide’s prize table. 

3. What this changes about our project
I would target Recursive Harnessing explicitly and use persistence as supporting functionality. Trying to demonstrate recursive adaptation, weeks-long operation, a new memory architecture, and a complete industry application would dilute the build.

The guide expressly includes changes to rules, context policies, guardrails, and tool access within Recursive Harnessing. We therefore do not need an agent that rewrites arbitrary source code to demonstrate the stated problem. 

My proposed demonstration is:

An agent fails because its current workflow retrieves the wrong evidence or lacks a necessary verification step. It proposes a bounded workflow change, tests that change against separate cases, and activates it only when the measured results improve.

For whichever domain we choose, I would make these three elements visible:

The failure: show the original action and the specific missing evidence—not merely an unhappy user rating.
The harness change: show an actual configuration difference, such as adding a verification tool or changing which context is retrieved.
The independent test: show whether the revised workflow improves results on cases it did not use to propose the change.
Keep permanent safety restrictions and evaluation answers outside the agent’s editable configuration.

This is an architectural recommendation, with moderate confidence—not an organizer-published scoring rubric.

Where Jev belongs
Jev is not listed among the partners or credit offers in this guide. That does not establish that it is prohibited; it means we should not assume the event provides Jev access or credits. 

I checked TypeSafe’s current quickstart: it supports supplied state plus structured Choice, Score, and Noul questions, including multiple questions in one request. That makes it a plausible component for bounded routing decisions. It does not establish accuracy on our particular task. 

My proposed division of responsibility:

Component	What we should assign to it
MongoDB Atlas sandbox	Cases, evidence, execution checkpoints, policy versions, and evaluation results.
Vector Search	Retrieve analogous previous failures and relevant evidence—not resolve exact identifiers.
Jev	Classify missing or conflicting evidence and select the next permitted verification action.
General reasoning model	Propose a constrained workflow revision and explain its rationale.
Deterministic evaluator	Calculate task outcomes and decide whether the proposed revision passes the acceptance criteria.
Do not let Jev’s confidence score be the proof that the harness improved. The proof should come from task outcomes measured against independent labels or simulator state.

4. The resources worth using today
These are offers stated in the guide, not account balances or successful redemptions I have verified. 

Resource	Stated offer	My proposed use
OpenRouter	Free hackathon credits; amount unspecified	Reasoning-model calls, subject to the redeemed allowance.
Voyage AI	200 million free tokens per participant	Embedding evidence and prior cases.
LangSmith	$50 credits plus Deployments access	Trace inspection and evaluation, provided setup does not delay the core build.
Vercel v0	$30 credits	Scaffold the case timeline, policy-diff view, and results panel.
OpenAI Codex	1,250 Codex credits	Development assistance. The guide says credits—not $1,250—and does not promise general inference API funding.
ElevenLabs	One month of Creator	Skip unless voice is essential to the chosen workflow.
Kiro	50 monthly free-tier credits plus a 500-credit new-user bonus	Optional development tooling; no reason to change editors solely to consume the offer.
The guide says several codes start going to checked-in participants at 10:30 a.m. on September 26. It also recommends MongoDB Agent Skills, the MongoDB MCP Server, and its natural-language query guidance as the development starting point. 

5. Design around the one-minute submission
My suggested video structure—not an official timing requirement beyond the one-minute limit—is:

Time	Show
0–10 seconds	The user’s problem and the agent’s concrete failure.
10–25 seconds	The evidence and the resulting harness-configuration change.
25–45 seconds	The revised workflow handling a different case; display baseline versus revised outcomes.
45–60 seconds	The relevant code and MongoDB-backed policy/checkpoint records, plus the result.
My recommendation remains: build one measurable adaptive workflow, not a general-purpose memory platform. Start by creating the correct sandbox cluster and a baseline that can fail. Add Jev where its decisions can be tested—not merely where its name can appear in the architecture.

so what should we build, based on all your research and the event doc

Worked for 3m 41s
Build Recall Firebreak: an agent that investigates an evolving product recall and improves its own evidence-gathering workflow.

The main risk is building a recall dashboard with a chatbot and calling it “self-improving.” Existing products already handle recall communications, escalation, lot-level tracing, and mock recalls. Those features are not your differentiation. Your differentiation must be a demonstrated improvement in how the agent investigates subsequent cases. 

My confidence is moderate: this is the strongest fit among the ideas we examined for the two-person, ten-hour constraint. That is a project-selection judgment—not a claim that it is an untouched market or will win.

What the product does
The intended user is a distributor’s or retailer’s operations manager. They give it a task:

“Determine which of our products and locations are affected by this recall. Gather the evidence, identify what remains unresolved, and prepare a recommendation for review.”

The agent investigates inventory records, shipment records, supplier messages, and records showing when ingredients were repackaged or incorporated into another product. It maintains unresolved questions as new information arrives.

When an investigation exposes a weakness in its procedure, it proposes a workflow change, tests that change, and adopts it only when the results improve.

This has a real-world basis: FDA’s record of the 2025 Bedner cucumber recall explicitly lists downstream recalls involving repackaged cucumbers and products made with them—including salads, wraps, and sushi. This is not just matching a product name against a recall notice. 

Why I would choose this over the other ideas
It fits the actual challenge without requiring an expansive platform. The organizer explicitly includes changes to rules, context policies, guardrails, and tool access within Recursive Harnessing, and requires building against only one of the two statements. Target that statement; use persistence and resumption as supporting functionality. 

The outcomes are testable. In a controlled scenario, you can know whether a source lot entered a finished product and reached a location. That gives you a firmer evaluation target than deciding whether a scientific conclusion is invalid after a retraction. This is my principal reason for choosing it over Citation Fallout.

The domain can be explained without a technical lecture. “The recalled cucumber became a salad under a different product identifier” makes the investigation failure understandable. Then the technical demonstration can focus on what changed inside the harness.

It can remain a real workflow rather than a one-off report. Cases have outstanding evidence requests, updated records, recommendations, and persisted state. You do not need to build an entire supply-chain platform to demonstrate that.

The exact demonstration I would build
Use one historical recall as background and a clearly labeled synthetic distributor. All company messages, inventory, shipments, and operational outcomes in the simulation should be fictional.

The case
A recall concerns source lot C-104.

A store’s inventory contains no item with that lot number. A supplier message says the store did not receive the original product. However, a repackaging record shows that C-104 became salad-kit lot S-88, which was shipped to that store.

The investigation must establish:

Recalled source lot → repackaged product → shipment → affected location.

Include unaffected products and genuinely incomplete records, so “flag everything” is not a successful strategy.

The adaptation
Run the initial agent. Observe its actual weakness: perhaps it misses the repackaging relationship, escalates unnecessarily, or spends too many calls searching irrelevant records.

Then let the improvement component propose a bounded change. An example—not a predetermined result—is:

Harness element	Possible change
Context selection	Include relevant transformation records, rather than retrieving only similarly named products.
Workflow	Add a source-lot tracing step when the evidence suggests repackaging.
Tool exposure	Surface the repackaging-record tool for that class of investigation.
Completion condition	Require evidence covering transformed products before proposing that a location is unaffected.
The second demonstration must use a different case. Re-answering the original case correctly proves little.

Show the agent handling a different identifier chain or supplier-message format under the revised workflow. Also restart the worker during an unresolved investigation and show it recovering its outstanding work.

Do not script a fake baseline failure or a guaranteed improvement. The measured behavior determines what you can claim.

What makes this more than a database query?
This is the strongest technical objection, and you should address it directly.

Exact lot matching, graph traversal, dates, and quantities belong in code. An LLM should not replace a join.

The agent’s job is to interpret incomplete, inconsistent operational messages and decide which evidence to obtain next. The adaptive harness changes that investigation procedure based on observed failures.

For example:

“We never shipped those cucumbers to that location; the only delivery was our prepared lunch assortment.”

The useful model decision is to investigate whether the assortment contains a transformed ingredient—not to pronounce the location unaffected because the original product name is absent.

If every input is already a complete, clean, structured supply-chain graph, there is little reason to use an agent. Preserve that distinction in both the implementation and pitch.

How to use Jev
Use Jev as a bounded decision component, not as the entire agent or its own correctness evaluator.

Its API supports predefined Choice questions and other structured judgments over supplied state. That fits questions such as “What evidence should we request next?” 

My proposed architecture:

Component	Responsibility
Jev	Classify missing/conflicting evidence and choose among permitted next steps.
Reasoning model	Review development failures and propose a structured harness-policy change.
Deterministic tools	Query inventory, trace lots, inspect shipments, and enforce permissions.
MongoDB Atlas	Store evidence, case state, checkpoints, policy versions, and evaluation results.
Vector Search	Retrieve analogous failure cases and relevant narrative evidence—not match exact lot identifiers.
Evaluator	Compare outcomes against hidden scenario truth and accept or reject proposed changes.
Give Jev a small action set:

inspect_inventory · inspect_shipments · inspect_repackaging · request_evidence · escalate · propose_result

Keep its inputs narrow. TypeSafe itself documents weaknesses involving numerical precision, date comparisons, multiple levels of indirection, and large amounts of irrelevant context. 

Do not let the optimizer change the evaluator, access hidden answers, remove human approval, or grant itself arbitrary tools. It may reorganize the investigation using an existing, bounded tool library.

What to build—and what to cut
Build one application with three views:

Case timeline: incoming evidence, tool calls, outstanding questions, and proposed outcomes.

Harness comparison: the active policy and candidate change, with a readable difference.

Evaluation results: baseline versus candidate, including failures and unresolved cases.

A small frontend, one backend/worker, and Atlas are enough. Do not add a multi-agent framework unless it removes work.

For data, use a cached historical openFDA record as background and author the operational fixtures yourselves. openFDA provides public recall records, but it is updated weekly and explicitly warns against using it for public alerts or recall-lifecycle tracking. This should be a historical simulation, not a live consumer-safety service. 

Cut voice, live email, authentication, enterprise integrations, a generic workflow editor, and a broad “agent platform.” None is necessary to prove the central claim.

How to prove the improvement
Start with a small, hand-checked scenario set covering direct shipments, repackaging, and incomplete or conflicting evidence.

Keep development cases, promotion-validation cases, and final test cases separate. The final test should not become another source of feedback for repeated optimization.

Compare the fixed and adaptive harnesses using the same model, permitted tool library, and execution budget. Measure:

Metric	What it prevents
Affected locations incorrectly proposed as unaffected	Optimizing speed by missing the problem.
Correctly resolved cases	Escalating everything and calling that reliability.
Unnecessary affected-product flags	Treating all inventory as implicated.
Evidence requests and tool calls	Improving accuracy through unlimited investigation.
Also compare against a simple deterministic tracing baseline wherever structured data is sufficient.

No invented improvement percentages. A small simulation can demonstrate the mechanism; it cannot establish production reliability.

The two-person execution split
Person A owns the investigation engine: fixtures, deterministic tools, persisted state, baseline, Jev integration, and policy execution.

Person B owns the evaluation and demonstration: ground-truth checks, case timeline, policy-difference view, outcome comparisons, public deployment, and video.

Integrate around one working case early. Add the policy-improvement loop only after the baseline and evaluator work. Reserve the final portion of the build for held-out tests and the submission—not another feature.

The nonnegotiable event requirements are the emailed Atlas Hackathon Sandbox, a public repository, an accessible demo, and the one-minute video showing the code and functionality built that day. 

The pitch should be:

“Recall Firebreak doesn’t just remember previous investigations. It learns which evidence to obtain, changes its investigation workflow, and tests that change before using it on the next case.”

That is what I would build. The first deliverable is one investigation with a trustworthy evaluator—not the dashboard and not the self-improvement claim.

we want to focus on the second problem statement

Reframed and redesigned the challenge for longevity

I’ll reassess around sustained, multi-day goals: preserving obligations through interruptions, incorporating delayed feedback, and measuring completion convincingly within a ten-hour build.

Locked the product

Strengthened the differentiator

Validated long-horizon work and defined success criteria




